blog: Add September 2025 project update (#26)
AerynOS/dotcom: src/content/docs/blog/2025/09/30/September 2025 project update/index.mdx

---
title: "September 2025 project update"
date: 2025-10-01T18:25:00Z
authors: [nomadiccore,ermo]
tags: [news]
---

As we reach the end of September, it's time for another monthly update. For this month, we are deferring our technical blog post into October but wanted to provide wider project updates.

## Kernels

> AerynOS is currently running on 6.16.8. Whilst we are aware that Linux 6.17 was released on 28th September 2025, the AerynOS team takes the view that for larger software stacks, to hold back a "few" point releases after a major version update to ensure there are no unexpected issues is the wise thing to do for a team our size.

Reviewer: "Whilst" here too. Also, that sentence is very long and nested and took me three reads to understand.

> Whilst AerynOS is a rolling release distribution, we don't aim to be on the bleeding edge just for the sake of being on the bleeding edge.

Reviewer: I'm not that well-versed in English, but "whilst" basically always seems like an unnecessarily fancy word to me. I would it less irritating / confusing if this was

```suggestion
While AerynOS is a rolling release distribution, we don't aim to be on the bleeding edge just for the sake of being on the bleeding edge.
```

## Gnome 49

> The team updated to Gnome 49 in the fortnight following its release meaning it's now available in our repository. Given the way Gnome updates and how extensions then follow suit, we are aware that many extensions have not yet been updated for compatibility with Gnome 49.

Reviewer: "fortnight" is also a word we should consider replacing for accessibility to non-native speakers, I think ^^

As such, we are holding back our next live installer ISO release until a larger number of extensions have had time to go through their own update cycles.

## Infra stabilization workstream

> 2025 has seen a massive lift in our infra code with the re-write to Rust taking place in Q2, and its stabilisation being pursued from the end of Q2 and up until now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2025 has seen a massive lift in our infra code with the rewrite to Rust taking place in Q2, and its stabilisation being pursued from the end of Q2 and up until now.
```

Reviewer: Also I'd use the AE spelling "stabilization" since that's the norm on the wider internet, but no strong feelings.

In this period, the team has been incrementally refining the code, and resolved bugs as they have arisen. This is work that average users will not have seen or been aware of as it only affects workflows behind the scenes. However, this has been extremely important work that has increasingly allowed us to become more confident in our new infra foundations. 

We are now at the point where we are confident in calling our new infrastructure "stable", with no bugs having presented themselves in several weeks and hundreds of packages built. 

It cannot be overstated how much better the state of our infra is compared to the start of the year. In turn, this now allows us to focus our efforts in other areas of our technology stack to similarly work through bugs, implement features and generally refine our code base.

## Cosmic maintainership

> During the last couple of months, we had a new contributor join us and begin working on the Cosmic stack. His contributions have been invaluable to the team and we thank him for his engagement. 

Reviewer: Are we not naming him? Did he prefer not to be named?

Unfortunately, due to personal reasons, he is having to take a temporary step back from the project. He has shared his methodology for providing updates to the Cosmic packages and we already have willing contributors picking up the tasks from which he was forced to step back.

We know he will be back once his circumstances improve, but in the meantime, if you are curious about supporting Cosmic on AerynOS, please do get in touch in our [Matrix packaging channel](https://matrix.to/#/#AerynOS-Packaging:matrix.org) as it's always good to have several people capable of maintaining each of our DE stacks.

## Web development

> One area in which we often receive feedback is our website. Whilst we are in our Alpha state, it has not been our highest priority to "fix". We do have a couple of interested contributors wanting to work on our website to improve the overall look and feel of the project, though.

Reviewer: I think the `"fix"` needs some elaboration about why it's broken in the first place. Or maybe just replace by 'improve'?

Hence, if you are interested in website design and want to lend a hand, please feel free to join our [Matrix webdev channel](https://matrix.to/#/#AerynOS-web:matrix.org) as we will likely begin work on this area in parallel to our core development work.

## Documentation

Similarly to our web development work, we are seeing increasing numbers of contributors willing and able to help with our documentation. Outside of our core tooling development, this is arguably our second most important workstream and another area in which we often receive feedback.

If you are interested in supporting our documentation drive, feel free to join us in our [Matrix documentation channel](https://matrix.to/#/#aerynos-documentation:matrix.org).

## Holidays

NomadicCore has been leading our social media presence for the last few months. Someone (unwisely) gave him permission to go on holiday for the next three weeks, which means that our social media presence is likely to be less active than usual in the interim.

> Please do not take this as any indication of a slow down in the project. If anything, we have an increasing number of developers working on different areas of our tooling stack and are seeing our development and packaging activity picking up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please do not take this as any indication of the project slowing down. If anything, we have an increasing number of developers working on different areas of our tooling stack and are seeing our development and packaging activity picking up.
```
